# Introduction to Computers and Programming
> **TOPICS**           
> 1.1 Introduction         
> 1.2 Hardware and Software            
> 1.3 How Computers Store Data             
> 1.4 How a Program works            
> 1.5 Using Python          
## 1.1 Introduction
+ Think about some of the different ways that people use computers. In school, students use computers for tasks such as writing papers, searching for articles, sending email, and participating in online classes. At work, people use computers to analyze data, make presentations, conduct business transactions, communicate with customers and coworkers, control machines in manufacturing facilities, and do many other things. At home, people use computers for tasks such as paying bills, shopping online, communicating with friends and family, and palying computer games. And don't forget that all cell phones, iPods, BlackBerries, car navigation system, and many other devices are computers too. The uses of computers are almost limitless in our everyday lives.
+ Computers can do such a wide variety of things because they can be programmed. This means that computers are not designed to do just one job, but to do any job that their programs tell them to do. A _program_ is a set of instructions that a computer follows to perform a task. For example, Figure 1-1 shows screens from two commonly used programs, Microsoft Word and Adobe Photoshop. Microsoft Word is a word processing program that allows you to create, edit, and print documents with your computer. Adobe Photoshop is an image editing program that allows you to work with graphic images, such as photos taken with your digital camera.
+ Programs are commonly referred to as _software_. Software is essential to a computer bvecause it controls everything the computer does. All of the software that we use to make our computer useful is created by individuals working as programmers or software developers. A _programmer_,or _software_ _devloper_, is a person with the training and skills exciting and rewarding career. Today, you will find programmers' work used in business, medicine, government,law enforcement, agriculture, academics, entertainment, and many other fields.
